---
title: Activity
published: true
---


# Activity
_Suggested timing: 40 minutes_

Structural inequalities are systemically rooted in the normal operations of all the systems that surround us; we must be mindful of them as we talk about race. There are measured and known disparities within each of the systems that surround us; let’s examine the terminology that is used within each of the following systems.

**5 min:** Read through Terminology of the Disproportionality in Systems individually.

**20 min:** In breakout groups, choose 2-3 systems and reflect on how you encounter these systems at work.
*   How do our experiences and the experiences of others are dramatically influenced by our individual identities and their intersections.
*   When we talk about race, how can we work towards connecting the conversation to the root of the issue, anchoring it to the system rather than emotion?


### Terminology of the Disproportionality In Systems
*   **Child Welfare:** _Overrepresentation_ refers to the disproportionate number of people of color in the welfare system.
*   **Criminal Justice:** The disproportionate number of minority youth who encounter the juvenile justice system is referred to as a _disproportionate minority contact._
*   **Economic:** The unequal distribution of assets among people is called the _wealth gap._
*   **Education:** The observed, persistent disparity in measures of educational performance among subgroups of students is called the _achievement gap._
*   **Employment:** The unequal treatment of people with regards to jobs, careers and employment is called _occupational inequality._
*   **Environmental:** While no formal term exists, we invite you to consider Flint, MI.
*   **Housing:** Refusing a loan or insurance to someone because of the neighborhood they live in is called _redlining._
*   **Law Enforcement** Targeting people because of their race is called _racial profiling._
*   **Media:** The systematic skewing of reporting is known as _bias._
*   **Healthcare/Mental Health/Substance Abuse:** The preventable differences_ _in the burden of disease, injury, or the opportunity to achieve optimal health that are experienced by socially disadvantaged populations is called _health disparities._
*   **Technology:** Here’s a familiar one for library employees – what do we call the gap in access to technology? _The digital divide._

**15min:** Come back to the full group and briefly reflect on your conversations in light of a point Amrita and Denise mention towards the end of this week: “When we talk about race, work towards connecting the conversation to the root of the issue and anchor it to the system rather than emotion.”